{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red51\green51\blue51;\red0\green0\blue255;\red153\green153\blue153;
\red83\green83\blue83;\red102\green102\blue102;\red0\green0\blue128;}
\margl720\margr780\margb1078\margt630\vieww24660\viewh22680\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf2 J Alan Brogan
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 Senior Software Engineer
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 Email
\fs26 \cf4 :
\fs24 \cf3  interviews@al-got-rhythm.net
\f1 \cf0 	
\f0\fs23 \cf3 LinkedIn: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ie.linkedin.com/in/algotrhythm"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc0 https://ie.linkedin.com/in/algotrhythm}}
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 Summary
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I enjoy an unrequited passion from decades of creating companies, teaching teams and releasing software. (With 10,000 hours as 1E) I have almost 5E engineering software on Unix networks and over 1E each in DevOps, Python, C++, Bash. \
Interested in parsing, learning and knowledge. \
My job is to make others's jobs easier, so I like the fewer procedures a smaller team needs, and the extra strands a diverse team finds. I like readability in code, ease in tools and chatting with friends \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 Experience
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Senior Software Engineer at WWTS
\b0 , September 2015 - present\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Managing outsourced teams to move our Global Managed Services and others' onto the web. Tools: OSX, Linux, vim, Python, Flask, CSS, JavaScript, git, Slack, JIRA, GitLab, Nose, PEP8, Selenium, Chili, MySql, Postgresql \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Senior SCM Engineer at  S3 Group, 
\b0 January 2014  -  August 2015 \cf4 (1 year 6 months)\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 Secured significant contracts from blue chip clients for S3 Group, scripting the Blackduck suite of tools to ensure Open Source Licence (and other) compliance in source code from large teams of developers in multiple companies. Pleased to find that the pedantry honed on programming questions is just as useful to legal ones. Tools: OSX, Linux, Python, Bash, Git, Gerrit, Jenkins, Jira, ... \
\
Interesting project: writing #licenses, #tags, ..., onto some Slack channels while conversing on others.\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 SCM at  Altobridge, 
\b0 2005  -  December 2013  \cf4 (8 years)\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs23 \cf6 Helped to grow the team to 150+. I continuously integrated world-wide development teams and supported installation on a variety of platforms. We controlled release through Issue Trackers to System Test, Support and Customers, who provided mobile towers to remote lumberjacks (so we were OK). Led the team 
\fs24 effort which achieved DO-178B certification of development processes, and contributed to the overall ISO-9000 certification efforts. I particularly enjoyed mentoring younger engineers, from internships through graduation and on to their own leadership positions. Tools: OSX, Linux, Python, Javascript, SVN, SQL, source code translation, Blackduck, Selenium. \
\
Interesting Project: Was asked to optimise a Java program, so profiled it, then adapted a Python parser to take away the syntactic sugar leaving code frames which gcc recognised as C, with some #includes. Profiled it again, re-wrote the framework, profiled again, added features.\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Co Founder at  Omnify Systems Ltd, 
\b0 2003  -  2005  \cf4 (2 years)\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 Built a team to adapt retail software for use in the Irish Fashion industry. Tools: Delphi (Pascal), Microsoft SQL Server, TestComplete. \
\
Interesting Project: Specification of a "tablet" for use by warehouse staff.\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Leader at  interWAVE, 
\b0 1999  -  2003  \cf4 (4 years)\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 On joining interWAVE I was responsible for transfer of the development of their OMC (Operations and Maintenance Centre) from Silicon Valley to Tralee, and then for all aspects of development in Tralee and for integration with other teams in America and China. Tools: C++, Solaris, Networking, Telecoms, Rational \
\
Interesting question: why does your diff engine compare text, not code?\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Co Founder at  Microcellular, 
\b0 1999  -  2001  \cf4 (2 years)\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 I initially joined a startup company called Microcellular Systems, where we created a software team which developed software such as GSM subscriber management. This development team was a significant part of the reason why Microcellular was acquired by interWAVE. Enterprise Ireland helped us to attract talent from Tralee Institute of Technology which I built into a Team of 10 strong enough to be aquired by\cf0 \
\
\cf6 Interesting Project: Mapping locations of approaching GSM towers from a shed. Tools: C, C++, Tcl/Tk, GSM, Windows\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Coder at  FlexTime, 
\b0 1994  -  2000  \cf4 (6 years)\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 I integrated the Flextime Windows-based system into the CSO (Central Statistics Office) VAX computers. Learned that the customer is always right, except when they think something might be "easy". \
\
Interesting Project: Unit testing for The Millennium Bug. Tools: COBOL, VMS.\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Ability Developer at  National Training and Development Institute, 
\b0 1995  -  1999  \cf4 (4 years)\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 I helped differently abled people to use computers to better meet their needs. This was the toughest and most rewarding position I have undertaken. \
\
Interesting challenge: Explain Visual Basic to a blind person who has heard Excel Macros. Listening to a program being read by a screen reader changes one\'92s perspective, or one cannot help.\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Teacher at  Allied Computer Training, 
\b0 1989  -  1994  \cf4 (5 years)\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 Developed a 2-year City & Guilds certified Software Engineering course on an i386 running Microfsoft Unix, way back, when they were still nerds.\cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 Volunteer Experience
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Trainer at  Centre for Talented Youth of Ireland, 
\b0 September 2011  -  May 2012  \cf4 (9 months)\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 Teaching kids to develop Andriod apps\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 Skills & Expertise
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
U\cf6 nix, Linux, OS X, Xenix, Windows\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 \
Python, Bash, C, C++, SQL, JavaScript, HTML, COBOL, BASIC, Pascal, Tcl/Tk, Java\cf0 \
\cf6 \
Git, Subversion, MySQL, Microsoft SQL Server, DO-178B, ISO 9001, GSM,\cf0 \
\cf6 \
Team Building, Software Engineering, Software Development, Software Configuration Management, Continuous Integration, Testing, Test Automation, Database Administration, Server Administration, Change Management, Mobile Networks, Process Automation, Technical Training, Problem Solving\cf0 \
\cf6 \
Software Licensing, Open Source Software, Parsing, Neural Networks\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 Projects
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Open Source contributions
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 My Github projects and contributions are at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/jalanb"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc0 https://github.com/jalanb}}\cf0 \
\
The community seems to like Copycat best, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/jalanb/co.py.cat"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc0 https://github.com/jalanb/co.py.cat}}\
But my favourite is Pym: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/jalanb/pym"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc0 https://github.com/jalanb/pym}}\
\
My latest CV is at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/jalanb/al_got_rhythm.net/blob/master/cv/J%20AlanBrogan.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \ul \ulc0 https://github.com/jalanb/al_got_rhythm.net/blob/master/cv/JAlanBrogan.pdf}}\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 Languages
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b\fs23 \cf0 English
\f1\b0\fs24 	
\f0\fs23 \cf6 (Full professional proficiency)
\fs24 \cf0 \
\

\b\fs23 German
\f1\b0\fs24 	
\f0\fs23 \cf6 (Limited working proficiency)
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Irish
\f1\b0 	
\f0 \cf6 (Elementary proficiency)\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 Publications
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Borland C++ Builder 6 Developers Guide
\b0 \
\
Sams  December 30, 2002\
\
Authors: J Alan Brogan, Jarrod Hollingworth, Bob Swart, Mark Cashman, Paul Gustavson\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 This book was created to fill the gaps in several areas of programming with C++Builder, and to provide content on many of the new features in C++Builder 5. It is aimed mostly at intermediate and advanced programmers, though several beginner chapters are included and many chapters contain lead-in information to get you up to speed. In total there are over 1750 pages of raw content!\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 A Python version of the Hofstadter Copycat algorithm
\b0 \
\
Authors: J Alan Brogan\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 Translation to Python of a Java implementation, with help from the Lisp in "Analogy Making as Perception" by Melanie Mitchell (a colleague of Douglas Hofstadter).\cf0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf4 Education
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Institute of Technology, Tralee
\b0 \
\
BSc, Computer Science, 2003 - 2004\
\
Grade:  Honours, First Class\
\
\
\
\

\b Dublin City University
\b0 \
\
BSc, Computer Science, 1989 - 1992\
\
Grade:  Honours in all exams (but moved to Kerry before completion)\
\
\
\

\b University College Dublin
\b0 \
\
Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (M.B.B.S.), Medicine, 1979 - 1984\
\
Grade:  Honours in all exams, but left for the benefit of patients.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0

\b\fs40 \cf2 J Alan Brogan
\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\qr\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://ie.linkedin.com/in/algotrhythm"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc0 https://ie.linkedin.com/in/algotrhythm}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 Colleagues have recommended Alan
\f0\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 "I was very lucky to have Alan as my manager. His enthusiasm for coding was infectious and he is a remarkable programmer."\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \'97 Geraldine Patton
\i\b0 , Software Engineer, Altobridge
\i0 , reported to Alan at Altobridge\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 "A fantastic boss; inspires great enthusiasm and sets a high standard. Alan really loves what he does, and is a great mentor and organiser for colleagues..."\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \'97 Laurence Dusoswa
\i\b0 , Software Engineer, Altobridge
\i0 , reported to Alan at Altobridge\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs23 \cf6 "Alan was very motivating in his role and encouraging to anyone that worked with him. He was always helpful and a great mentor. He was very enthusiastic in his role and a pleasure to work with and for."
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \'97 Maeve Nolan
\i\b0 , Software Manager, Alvarion
\i0 , reported to Alan at interWAVE\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs32 \cf0 A random redditor has recommended Alans code
\f0\fs24 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs23 \cf6 Impressive, not only for the thinking of the idea but there is something I love about how simple it is and it is bash
\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf6 I love witty code snippets\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \'97 /u/andru183
\i\b0 , Redditor,
\i0\b  
\b0 commented on my code at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.reddit.com/r/commandline/comments/2kq8oa/the_most_productive_function_i_have_written/clo0gh2"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 \ul \ulc0 /r/commandline/}}\
}
